The Bible says that there are seven things that every Christian must know.
If you call yourself a Christian and you don't know these things, it's honestly over for
you.
And I'm not trying to be edgy or anything when I say this, there are so many Christians
out here who don't even know the basics of Christianity, but then go around purporting
themselves to be Bible teachers, going around condemning others to hell and doing all kinds
of other wicked stuff when they don't even know what the Bible teaches.
They don't even know the fundamentals of the faith.
So whether you're a babe in Christ or you've been a Christian, you're well seasoned many
years in, I think that there's something to take away from this video for everyone.
I mean, even for me, I've been a Christian going on for like four years now and only
just, I don't know, maybe like two years ago, I learned about some of these things because
these things really aren't taught in any churches, even though every church should be teaching
these things.
So in Hebrews chapter five, verse 12, it says this for when the time came that you
ought to be teachers, you have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles
of the oracles of God and are become as such that have need of milk and not of strong meat
for everyone that uses milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness for he is a babe.
The Bible talks about this distinction between the milk of the word and the meat of the word.
The milk of the word is the basics of Christianity and the meat of the word is the more complex stuff.
Before we can get to the meat, the complex, deeper things about the word of God, we need
to understand the basics, the milk.
And like it said in Hebrews chapter five, like we just read, there are many Christians
in Paul's day and today that are trying to be teachers when they don't even understand
the basics.
As we go into the next chapter, Hebrews chapter six, Paul begins to list out what things are
the basic principles of the prophets of God.
Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on to perfection, not
laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith towards God, of
the doctrine of baptisms, of laying on of hands and of the resurrection of the dead
and of eternal judgment.
Everything Paul just listed there in that list is the basic principles of the doctrine
of Christ.
He says it himself.
Many Christians, for example, like Mike Winger, Gavin Ortland, Radim Zumer, and others, treat
these basic principles as though they're something up for debate.
They're constantly debating these things.
But Paul says if you don't even understand these things, you shouldn't even be a teacher.
For example, I mean, Mike Winger is constantly wishy-washy on the basics.
He calls himself a pastor.
He's putting himself in a teaching position.
He shouldn't be doing that.
People who cannot get established on the basics should not be teaching, should not be calling
themselves pastors, should not be behind a pulpit.
And not only this, but most Christians are actually just totally wrong.
If they have a solid position on these issues, they're just wrong about it.
So what I want to do in this video is I want to break down all six of these things and
then there's a secret seventh one that we're saving to the end of the video so that you
guys can be fully furnished and ready to do good works.
And by the way, that's what the Bible calls us to do.
The Bible calls us Christians to go out and preach the word of God to all nations, making
disciples of all nations and teaching them to obey what Jesus taught.
This is the great commission he gives to all of us, not just to some of us.
And so we should all be striving to have mastery of the word of God so that we can teach others,
bring others to Christ so that other people can be saved.
And that's the whole reason we're still on the earth.
Jesus would rapture us right now if we were not called to this purpose.
Anyway, so number one, the first thing that you must understand is repentance from dead works.
Many Christians, whether they're Protestant, Catholic, Orthodox, whatever denomination
they identify as, they all seem to teach that you have to repent of your sins to be saved.
But did you know the Bible never teaches that?
Not once in the entire King James Bible, Old or New Testament, do we see the phrase repent
of your sins or repent from your sins.
This never appears.
And I'm sure that many people who are watching this video are going to have a bunch of verses
come to their mind, open up the King James Bible, read that verse.
And what you're going to see is that that verse does not say repent of your sins.
There's not a single verse in the Bible that says that because the Bible never teaches
repentance of sins for salvation.
Now, yes, obviously, once we're saved, we are called to stop sinning.
I'm not telling you to keep sinning.
But what I'm saying is that for salvation, you don't repent of your sins.
See, most Christians, and back then it was most Jews, right?
Have the belief that in order to get to heaven, you have to be a good person, that there's
a certain amount of good works that you have to do.
For the Jews, it was keeping the law of Moses.
For Catholics, it's getting baptized, taking the Eucharist, getting your death rites, getting
married, the sacraments, repenting of your mortal sins.
And for most Christians, it's keeping the Ten Commandments.
But the Bible teaches we are not saved by works.
In Galatians 2.16, it says works cannot justify a man.
And in Romans 4.5, it says that we can get to heaven with no good works whatsoever if
we simply just believe in Jesus.
An essential thing that you must understand in order to be saved, that in order to go
to heaven, you have to repent of your dead works.
Repentance means that you stop doing something, you change your mind about something.
And we need to change our mind about good works, thinking that good works get us to
heaven.
And we need to realize that all of our works are as filthy rags before God, that God thinks
they're totally worthless, and that they will not get us to heaven.
We trust in Jesus Christ alone for our salvation.
So every time that you see the phrase, repent and believe in the Bible, 99% of the time,
it's not talking about turning away from sin.
It's talking about repenting of your dead works, that you stop thinking works save you,
and you trust in Jesus Christ alone.
The second thing on this list is faith towards God.
Now obviously, this is pretty basic, right?
As Christians, we need to understand God is real.
And so I recommend that all Christians go and they look up the evidence for God.
But this is a little deeper because there's more to understand than just God is real.
We also have to understand, right, that Jesus Christ is God.
If a Christian's denying that Jesus Christ is God, they are unlearned, they are unstable,
they should not be teaching, you shouldn't listen to that person.
The Bible is so clear on this.
Go to 1 John 5, 7.
What does it say?
It says there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy
Ghost.
Who is the Word of God?
Jesus Christ, made in the flesh, right?
So we also have to understand that Jesus is God.
And another thing that we have to understand is that we put our faith in God in order to
be saved.
We put our faith in Jesus Christ alone to be saved, not in our works.
The third thing on our list is the doctrine of baptisms.
Now something that should immediately stick out to you is that it says baptisms, as in
multiple baptisms.
A lot of Christians don't realize this, but there are actually multiple different baptisms
you can get according to the Bible.
There's three of them as far as the New Testament is concerned.
The baptism of water, baptism of the Holy Ghost, and baptism of fire.
But only one baptism saves you.
Now many Christians, they try to push these three different baptisms together as though
they're one baptism.
That when you get baptized in water, you get baptized with the Holy Ghost, and baptism
of the Holy Ghost is baptism of fire.
But as John the Baptist says in the Gospels,
I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, repentance of dead works.
But he that comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear.
But he will baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire, whose fan is in his hand, and
he will thoroughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner.
But he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
So right there the Bible teaches there are three different baptisms.
Water baptism, Holy Ghost baptism, fire baptism.
The first and most important one that I want to mention is the Holy Ghost baptism.
See when we believe in Jesus, the Holy Ghost comes and indwells us.
It says in Ephesians 1.13,
In whom you also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation,
in whom also after you believed, you were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise, which
is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession unto
the praise of his glory.
The Bible teaches right there that when we believe in Jesus, that we are indwelled with
the Holy Spirit, and that the Holy Spirit seals us until the day of redemption, until
the end of the world, and he's the assurance of our salvation.
Holy Ghost baptism, Holy Spirit baptism is what saves you, and it seals you until the
day of redemption.
You can't lose your salvation.
Now after we get baptized with the Holy Ghost, Jesus then commands us to get baptized with
water.
The whole point of getting baptized with water is so that we can make a public profession
to the world that we are choosing to follow Jesus.
It's basically like an initiation ritual.
It's the first step to the Christian life.
And then the third baptism, the baptism of fire does not happen to believers, but it
happens to unbelievers when in the day of judgment, people are going to be thrown into
hell.
The next thing on our list is laying on of hands.
Did you know that the Bible teaches that you can cast out demons?
Many people don't believe this, the Catholics teach that only bishops can cast out demons,
but this is not true.
The Bible says that any believer, no matter who you are, that you can cast out demons
through the authority you have been given in Christ.
In Mark 16 15, Jesus says,
Go you into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.
He that believes and is baptized will be saved, and he that believes not will be damned.
And these signs shall follow them that believe.
In my name they shall cast out devils.
They shall speak in new tongues.
They shall take up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing it will not hurt them.
They shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover.
If anyone is telling you that the gifts are not alive in the body, that Christians today
can't perform miracles like casting out demons, they're just wrong.
The fact is I've personally seen this in my own life.
I've seen a demonically possessed man obey the authority of Christ.
I command them to start walking around in circles.
They get up, they start walking around in circles.
I command them to lay on the ground, they lay on the ground.
You command these demons in the name of Jesus, they have to obey you.
God has given all Christians power and authority over sicknesses, over poison, over these things.
Now again, the Bible does not say we will always be able to perform every miracle we
want to perform, but the fact is that we can do these things through the power of God if
God wills it.
But as Jesus teaches, there are some demons that you can't cast out without prayer and
fasting.
But still, the point is that we have power and authority in Christ that we can lay hands
on the sick and they will be healed.
The fifth thing on this list is the resurrection of the dead.
Many Christians, mostly just babes in Christ, they envision the afterlife as being like
going up into a cloud and you have a harp and you have some angel wings and a halo and
it's like a big church service forever.
This is not what the Bible teaches.
The Bible is very clear, good passage is 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, that the dead are
physically going to come back to life in the last days.
See, as a Christian, we're not waiting for an afterlife where we're just going to be,
you know, ghosts.
No, we are going to have physical eternal life.
When Jesus promises eternal life, he's talking about your physical body is going to come
back to life in the last days.
And another aspect of this resurrection of the dead is that Jesus came back to life after
he died.
Three days after he died, he rose from the dead.
And if a Christian is denying this, they're not saved, at least in my opinion.
And just like how Jesus came back to life three days after he died, we are going to
come back to life after we die when Jesus comes back during the second coming.
If you want deeper wisdom on this, I have a video about whether hell is eternal and
in this, I go really deep into this discussion about the resurrection of the dead, the new
earth and heaven and what it all looks like, what's it all about.
And there's actually two different hells in the Bible, but go watch that video if you're
interested.
And our final point, at least in this list that Paul gives us, though I have one more
seventh point that you need to know, has to do with hell and that's eternal judgment.
Listen, many Christians don't like this, but the fact is that once you die, your eternal
destiny is sealed.
Whether you are going to heaven, whether you're going to hell, whether you are partaking in
the resurrection of the dead or whether you're going to the lake of fire, our judgments are
eternal.
They cannot be changed.
And the Bible's pretty clear that if you are saved, if you've put your faith and trust
in Jesus Christ alone for your salvation and you're not trusting your works and you say,
Jesus, I believe you are the reason I'm going to heaven.
It's not about me.
It's not my works.
It's not my repentance.
If you believe that, you are eternally secure and you can never lose your salvation.
Our judgment, whether it's a good judgment or a bad judgment, is eternal.
You cannot lose your salvation and the people who are dead who haven't believed in Christ,
they don't get a second chance.
You're not going to get a second chance to believe in Jesus.
Now I'm sure people got to be asking by now, Luis Sanz, what's the seventh secret thing?
Well, the seventh thing that I think all Christians need to know is what the distinction between
the milk and the meat is.
Listen, we've already described what the milk is.
These six things that we just talked about, they are the milk.
These are the basics of Christianity.
Essentially what this list is, is it's the gospel.
That God is real, that God is going to judge all people for their sins when they die.
Good people go to heaven, bad people go to hell.
But if we believe in Jesus and trust in him alone, we can have forgiveness for our sins
and we won't go to hell.
And we have eternal life that we can never lose.
This is the basics of Christianity.
All people have to grasp this before they can move on to the meat.
But the question is, what is the meat?
Well, if we head back to Hebrews chapter 5 and go down to the very last verse there,
Strong meat belongs to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have
their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.
The meat of the word, believe it or not, most Christians will try to invert this for you.
This as above, so below.
And they try to tell you that the basics of Christianity is repenting of your sins.
You stop sinning.
You overcome your sin.
You know, this complicated stuff is like the resurrection, the dead, and heaven, and hell,
and all that.
No, the Bible says the basics is salvation through faith alone and Christ alone.
That there's eternal judgment for your sins and all that.
And that the advanced, complex stuff is discerning good from evil, overcoming your sins, repenting
from your sins, obeying God, obedience to God, walking in the spirit.
That's the advanced stuff.
That's the meat.
And many Christians, they get confused about this because there's so many false teachers
and they want to delve into the meat when they're not ready to chew the meat.
Just like how a baby, they don't have any teeth, they can't chew anything, they need
to drink milk in order to live.
Babes in Christ, we're a babe in Christ.
We cannot comprehend the deeper things of the word of God that have to do with repentance
from sins, overcoming our struggles with addictions, and stuff like that.
That's advanced stuff for Christians.
That's not the basics.
And I see many Christians who are not solid on the basics, not solid on the milk, they
delve into deep meat.
Books like the book of James, the book of 1 John, the book of Jude, the book of Hebrews.
They delve into these books, for the most part, are entirely talking about the Christian
life, right?
And what is the Christian life like for a Christian?
Well, as a Christian, we're supposed to walk in obedience to God, repent from our sins,
and preach the gospel.
But because they're not solid on the basics, right, that salvation is by faith alone, in
Christ alone, and that it's all about what Jesus did, it's not about our works.
They read these books about the Christian life and they get confused and they end up
thinking that salvation is by works when that's not what these books are teaching.
All that James or 1 John or Hebrews is teaching is that as a Christian we should not sin and
we should do good works.
But babes in Christ who are not solid on the gospel can't handle being told that they have
to do good works.
They think that this is some kind of salvational requirement when it's not a salvational requirement.
This is deeper stuff that we're supposed to come to after we establish the basics.
So the seventh thing that all Christians need to know is that we need to interpret
these difficult passages like James chapter 2, like 1 John, like Hebrews chapter 10, and
Hebrews 6, Hebrews 3, Galatians chapter 5.
We need to interpret these passages which are difficult through the lens of the milk.
We need to look at these passages with a full assurance that salvation is by faith alone
without works, sola gratia, grace alone, sola fide, faith alone, sola Christus, Christ alone.
And once you guys fully grasp that then it's time to go to these deeper passages.
But when you don't fully grasp the basics you're not going to be able to grasp these
deeper things.
And listen, as a Christian you might disagree with me on my understanding of salvation but
I have to ask you, what is Hebrews 6 talking about when it says repentance from dead works?
What is it talking about when it says that our judgment is eternal?
What does it mean in Hebrews chapter 5 when it says that the meat is discerning good and evil?
Regardless, Hebrews 5 and 6 tells us that we need to understand these issues before
we can get into discerning good and evil.
So perhaps you're not convinced salvation is by faith alone.
But until you understand how salvation works, you can't be lecturing people and trying
to teach people about the word of God and you can't be dealing with the complex issues
of morality.
If you want to support the ministry, send a super thanks, it's that little heart with
the dollar sign thing.
Or just leave a comment, like the video.
Thanks for watching.
See you next time.